---
layout: page
title: Elias Most 
description: Elias Most 
---

*Princeton University*, **November 17, 1:00 pm**

### Neutron star mergers: From gravity to nuclear and plasma physics

Announcing the dawn of a new era of multi-messenger astrophysics, the
gravitational wave event GW170817 – involving the collision of two neutron
stars – was detected in 2017. In addition to the gravitational wave signal, it
was accompanied by electromagnetic counterparts providing new windows into the
different physics probed by the system. Since then, several gravitational wave
events involving neutron stars have been discovered, with many more expected
over the next years. To understand and interpret the physics of these events,
it is necessary to model the intricate dynamics of such systems before, during
and after the merger, including the amplification of strong magnetic fields and
the formation of hot and dense nuclear matter. Due to its strong non-linear
nature, a modeling of the post-merger phase will only be possible with
cutting-edge numerical approaches that combine strong gravity, nuclear physics,
and plasma astrophysics. In this talk, I will discuss recent advances in the
multi-physics modeling of a neutron star coalescence. With the help of several
examples, I will show how future gravitational wave detections of the
post-merger phase might allow to systematically uncover the properties of hot
dense matter. Along those lines, I will also show how neutrino-driven viscosity
can naturally arise during the collision. Lastly, I will show how cutting-edge
numerical simulations can help to uncover new mechanisms for the production
fast radio precursors emitted shortly before the collision of two neutron
stars. I will conclude by discussing how such a multi-physics approach will
enable a next generation modeling of the engines of multi-messenger
gravitational events.
